---
permalink: /made-you-look-advertising/index.html
layout: post
title: Made-you-look advertising
published: true
categories: []
---
I got a spam letter today from AT&T. Except it didn't say anything <br />about who it was from on the outside. The addressee was "California <br />Resident" so it was clear it was spam, but it was printed in a fake <br />handwritten font, in a fake blue pen color. <p /> Upon opening the envelope you find a paper in standard Letter <br />dimensions, with what looks like a photocopy of an ad, complete with <br />the characteristic ink fading and smudging. Several parts of the ads <br />had the same kind of fake blue pen marked up as if with notes by the <br />kind sender. Although throughout the short interaction between myself <br />and the letter I was quite aware it was just advertising, the <br />anti-branding just drew me in. As far as I can recall, the AT&T logo <br />was only visible in one place, and even there it was understated and <br />quite small. Maybe it was just my fascination with the thinking behind <br />such an ad, but I felt drawn in against my will, my disbelief <br />suspended just a tad. <p /> We live in a word saturated with brands. Also today, I saw a pack of <br />Duracell batteries at Safeway that included a horrible plastic <br />screwdriver shaped like a Duracell battery, clearly with the primary <br />purpose of adding the brand to your life even though it's obvious <br />almost no one would actually use the dinky screwdriver; it would lay <br />discarded somewhere, ready to anchor the brand when you least expect <br />it. <p /> So, we seem to have developed powerful advertising ignoring skills. <br />Some studies have shown that advertising we pay less attention to <br />tends to have even greater effects, but I find this spam masquerading <br />as a personal letter to be proof that we've gotten too good at <br />discarding the useless brochures and pointless offers clogging our <br />mailboxes. <p /> Perhaps once we get good at discarding these, they'll be able to <br />return to the gaudy spam of old.
